IELTS Test 3 Transcript

Section 1
Roger: Kiwi Air, good morning. You're speaking with Roger. How may I help you?

Janet: Yes, hi, my name's Janet.
I've just been trying to make a booking on the Internet, and I'm having a problem that I'd like to complain about.

Roger: So let me just take down your full name.

Janet: It's Janet Quigley. That's Q-U-I-G-L-E-Y.

Roger: Thank you. And what's the problem exactly?

Janet: Well, yes, I'm trying to book myself and three children, so four tickets to fly within New Zealand.
We're wanting to fly from Wellington to Christchurch, not one way, I mean, but return.
So it's just a simple booking.

Roger: Yes. And you've put your dates in, have you?

Janet: Yes, the dates are...What are we in now? It's September, isn't it? So I'm booking for October.
Oh, sorry, I mean November the 10th till the 15th.

Roger: Right, let me just get that down on the form. And what time would that be?

Janet: We'd be leaving at 11.45 in the morning, arriving into Christchurch at 12.30.

Roger: Hmm.

Janet: I know that it's cheaper to not make the reservation in person.
So to save paying the fee, I've been trying to do it through your homepage.

Roger: Yes, So what's the problem exactly?

Janet: Well, every time I put in a number of adults and children travelling, the website automatically alters the rate for one of the children to what you'd pay for an adult.
It's very annoying.
I'm getting so frustrated with it, and each time I change it back I've been getting error messages telling me to call you directly.
I really can't understand it.

Roger: Alright. Well, yes, there is a reason for why that's happening.
It's Kiwi air policy, I'm afraid to allow a maximum of two children to travel on child fares with just the one adult accompanying them.

Janet: So, because there's three of them and just me, do you mean I have to pay an adult fee for one of my children?

Roger: Yes, that's right.

Janet: But I've flown to Australia before on my own with the children, and we didn't have to pay extra.

Roger: It's the policy that we've just introduced for domestic air travel.
It may be extended later for international travel as well.

Janet: But an adult fare is for someone over the age of 12.
My children are only 11, 8 and 5. It's not fair to charge them for an adult rate.
Besides, they actually eat less than an adult, so they wouldn't consume as much food on the plane.
I just don't think it's right.

Roger: Well, I'm sorry, but that's how we charge.
We do look after children well on our flights, you know.
We give them little packs of games and coloured pencils so they have something to do, you know.

Janet: Well, still, the difference to pay between the fares is a lot of extra money that I hadn't budgeted for.
It seems to me that your rules discriminate against a parent travelling on their own with the children and also families with lots of children.
And what about school groups? That wouldn't be fair.

Roger: Well, Madam, yes, I can see your point.
You're welcome to put your complaint in writing, if that's what you'd like to do.

Janet: Well, I certainly would.
I'll be writing a letter to your customer services officer, Is it?

Roger: I just address it to the manager, then it will reach the right person.
That's fine that that's your right to do that.

Janet: And how soon do you think they'll get back to me?
I must say, I've really am shocked at this. I'm not happy about it at all.

Roger: Well, at busy times it sometimes takes a month. But it's low season now so you should expect to receive a response probably inside a week.
You need to take down this reference number.
I'll just give it to you. It's GBK 8422.

Janet: Alright, then I'll put that in the letter. Well, thanks for your help.

Roger: Thank you for calling Kiwi Air.

Section 2
Man: I have in the studio with me, Mary Smith from Yorktown Tourism, who is here to tell us about some of the events happening in our state capital over the next three weeks at the Spring Festival.

So Mary, what can we expect to see?

Woman: Well, it's such an exciting time to be in Yorktown.

To kick off the Spring Festival, there'll be a huge firework display down by the lake starting at 9:00 p.m. this Saturday, the 4th of September.

Over 10,000 fireworks will be set off.

All choreographed to music and broadcast simultaneously here on Radio Yorkie.

You should get there early if you want to get close to the action, so bring along a picnic and a blanket as it could get chilly in the evening.

One of the things that attracts visitors to the festival from all over the country is the amazing collection of flowers on show in Central Park throughout the festival.

Special buses will run from the town centre to the show at 20 minute intervals for those of you who prefer to take public transport.

If you're interested in seeing the latest in cars, from the fastest to the most expensive, then head over to the Motor Show at the Exhibition Center from the 10th to the 15th of September.

It'll be open daily from 9:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m., so you can even pop there after work.

Do you like photography?

Then go along to grow your imagination.

An exhibition of photographs of famous gardens which will be held at the art gallery from the 11th to the 19th of September.

Come and be inspired by some of the world's most beautiful gardens.

I've had a sneak preview of some of the photographs and they are magnificent.

If music is more your scene, then you should come and hear the Australian Philharmonic Orchestra performing Swing in Spring at the Concert Hall on Friday the 17th and Saturday the 18th of September.

It's a celebration of dance music from the 1940s and 50s.

There'll be 3 performances, both evenings start at 7:00 p.m. and a matinee performance at 2:30 on the Saturday. So get your dancing shoes on and head there.

It's guaranteed to get your feet tapping.

Woman: Those are just a few of the attractions on offer, but for something a little different, you could try Balloons Down Under, which is the largest gathering of hot air balloons in the southern hemisphere.

It's well worth it because they'll be over 25 balloons of all shapes and sizes, which is a truly amazing sight.

I'm also happy to announce that one lucky person will get the chance to go up in one of these balloons absolutely free.

That's the prize in our special Spring Festival competition.

It'd normally cost you $200, so it's not a bad prize.

I'm sure you all want a chance to win, so you'll need to fill out the entry form in today's edition of the Yorktown News.

Don't forget to include your phone number and send it to Radio Yorkie.

Make sure your entry reaches us by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday the 9th of September.

Then to see if you've won, just check out the festival's website on Saturday the 11th of September, where we'll publish the name of the lucky winner.

It's such a fantastic prize, so hurry up and get your entry in.

So there you have it, just a few of the special events happening here in Yorktown over the Spring Festival.

And if you'd like any more details about the festival….

Section 3
Andrew: Hi Sarah. It's great that we've got some free time this afternoon to decide what advice to give when we talk to the students on the geology field trip to Iceland.

Sarah: Hi, Andrew. Yes, I've already jotted down a few ideas about the issues that come up on these trips.

Andrew: We should include something about existing rules and laws that apply, like the Country Code.

Sarah: Or the Mountain Code.

Andrew: Yes, the Country Code is mainly just common sense, so let's include the mountain one.
That's what they need to know about for geology.
Then there are similar guidelines for caving, but they won't need those in the part of Iceland we're going to.

Sarah: OK.

Andrew: Right, let's think about when they're on site and looking after the environment.
I don't mean not dropping litter. That's obvious, all like closing gates.
But what about not scaring birds or damaging rare plant life.
Actually, what I think happens is that they all become so focused on what they're doing that they forget about other things around them.
It's not intentional damage.

Sarah: And we have to include something about collecting samples.
That's vital for geology students.

Andrew: Yeah, there's quite a list of rules about that.
For example, only take minute samples and only if necessary.

Sarah: Yes, that's the golden rule. That has to come first.
And then I guess, never take a fossil away from the area.

Andrew: And when you do disturb an area to take a sample, make sure you leave it as you found it.

Sarah: OK

Andrew: And there's something we still have to find out about. Isn't there something about how you could never take a sample from a wall?

Sarah: You mean a man-made wall or something like a natural rock face?

Andrew: A wall, like of a building.

Sarah: Don't you just have to get permission from the owner?
But I'm not sure to be honest, so we need to check that.
Another really important thing is advice on safety, especially as a lot of our trips are along the coast.

Andrew: Yes, well, you can usually hear if any large boulders start to tumble down a cliff.

Sarah: And you realize you're on soft sand when you start sinking.
But when people are working on the seashore, they often fail to notice that the tides come in and they're cut off by water.
That's what we should make a point about.

Andrew: OK.

Sarah: Before we do anything else, could we just talk about the reading packs we put together for the students to read before they go on the field trip to Iceland?

Andrew: Absolutely. They'll need to do most of the reading beforehand because there won't be time while we're away and there's a lot of technical data.
That's certainly the case in the pack called geothermal fields.

Sarah: Does that cover industrial uses of geothermal energy?

Andrew: No. It deals with harnessing the heat generated from the earth in geothermal areas to grow vegetables for local consumption.
They'll need to understand the geological characteristics that make this possible, right?

Sarah: The reading pack, called the Hot Spot, will help them understand how Iceland differs from other islands formed at the same time, like Bermuda and the Canary Islands.
It's the existence of the hotspot that explains the rock formations of this island and makes it unlike any of the others.

Andrew: Now I definitely think they should read the pack about Glaciers.
They need to be aware that although the ice and glaciers up in the mountains can stay frozen for thousands of years.
If anything happens to make the glaciers melt suddenly, the water produced pours down the valleys and it can mean that whole villages suddenly have to be evacuated.

Sarah: Right, then the Basalt Rock pack shows how Iceland's landscape like many other island has been molded over millions of years by lava flows from volcanic eruptions, especially the area in the northwest of the island.

Andrew: And lastly, reading about Geothermal Power Plants will inform the Viceland's plan to stop using energy derived from carbon in the future.
Heating and electricity will come from sustainable sources which won't cause any pollution.

Sarah: I think that'll be all the reading they'll have time for.

Section 4
Good morning, everyone.

Now, you'll remember that last week we looked at the migration of people from the interior of West Africa to various coastal towns with special reference to Ghana.

Today we're going to focus on the people known as the Berbers who live in North Africa.

The Berbers inhabited this part of Africa as long ago as the 7th century, and their society was based on tribes which were scattered throughout a number of countries, Algeria, Morocco, Libya and Mali.

However, at some point in the 12th century, the area was invaded by Bedouin Arabs.

These people destroyed the Berber's peasant economy.

As a result, many Berbers left their settlements to lead a nomadic life by wandering with their animals through the deserts and across the different mountains.

Over the centuries, many Berbers migrated to other countries like Spain and France to work as labourers, taking with them their culture and traditions, and their descendants remain there until this day.

Not all the barbers led a fully nomadic life.

There were three different groups.

Some became farmers, cultivating the lowlands in the winter and grazing their flocks of animals in the mountains during the summer.

They are called seasonal nomads.

Some Berbers who led a completely nomadic life tended to move from one oasis to another.

A third group settled by the oases and grew fruit and vegetables like dates and eggplants, as well as making olive oil, which they used for cooking.

Traditionally, Berbers kept cattle, sheep and goats together with oxen, mules and horses.

Now in the Sahel region of North Africa, that's the area South of the Sahara Desert.

The region became and still is becoming increasingly dry and arid, so the Berbers relied more and more on camels for transporting their families and their goods.

How did these different groups of people survive in such harsh conditions? Where did they live?

Well, Berbers who stayed put in one place, built single story stone houses for protection by quarrying the local rock, whereas nomadic Berbers carried their homes with them and erected temporary tents.

Settled Berbers developed various small-scale industries such as pottery making and weaving, but these tasks were generally left to the Berber women.

As you might expect, though, the life of a settled community was governed by the men who met regularly in the village square to discuss affairs and make decisions.

Now, let's turn to the Tuaregs, who belong to a nomadic Berber group and move mainly in the central and Western Sahara Desert, north of the river Niger.

The word Tuareg comes from the Arabic 'taarak' and means 'God forsaken'.

Dessert Tuareg carried tents made of strips of goat skins sewn together.

As many as 40 skins were needed to make a complete tent.

If the skins weren't available, they were of mats made of grass or palm leaves and hung them over a frame so that the tent looked like a humped dome.

Tuareg's society was traditionally very feudal and organised as a strict hierarchy, ranging from nobles or aristocrats downwards to labourers whose ancestors had once been slaves.

Tuaregs were famous for their warlike qualities and fierce independence.

In fact, one of the greatest insults was to suggest to a Tuareg that his father had died in his bed and not while fighting.

Tuareg men were sometimes called 'blue men', as all adult males wore a dark blue veil in the presence of women, strangers, and in-laws.

Legend had it that a Tuareg man couldn't be recognized unless he was wearing this veil.

But this custom of the veil began to disappear as more and more Tuaregs became urbanised and moved to the towns.

I mentioned earlier how dry the Sahel region has become and there have been very severe droughts over the past 30 years.

This has meant that the number of Tuaregs living in the area has declined.

Those whose animals were fortunate enough to survive have moved away from the southern Sahara into Burkina Faso in order to find new grazing lands for their herds.

If there's one city which people associate with the Sahara Desert, it's probably Timbuktu.

But what most people don't know is that Timbuktu was founded by Tuareg nomads almost 1,000 years ago.

The city became the focal point of the trans-Saharan caravan routes.

North African merchants flocked there to do business and trading in gold and salt flourished.

For many years, Timbuktu was considered inaccessible.

But today, what is left of the city attracts a small number of tourists.

The Tourism Department of the Mali government employs some Tuaregs who act as guides.

Essential, really, when you realize that it's only the Tuaregs who can find their way around the desert using the sand dunes as landmarks.

Right. I'll take questions now before I go on to discuss Tamasheq, the language spoken by the Tuaregs, which also has an alphabet called...