IELTS Test 2 Transcript

Section 1
Agent: Good morning. McMurray Real Estate, Peter speaking. How may I help you?

Susan: Hi, Peter. My name is Susan. I'm calling from Australia.
I'll be moving to New Zealand soon and I was hoping you could help me find somewhere to live in Auckland.

Agent: We'd be pleased to. I just need to get some information about what you want so we can find the perfect place.

Susan: Sounds good.

Agent: Let's start with some personal details.
What's your last name?

Susan: It's Smith.

Agent: And your phone number?

Susan: I only have a mobile. Is that OK?

Agent: That's fine.

Susan: OK. It's 614381997.
But if you want to contact me, usually the best way is by e-mail.

Agent: OK, what's your e-mail address then?

Susan: It's susan.smith@post.com.

Agent: Thanks. Now, you said you're living in Australia.

Susan: Right, in Brisbane.

Agent: OK, what's your address in Brisbane then?

Susan: 234 Becketts. That's B-E-C-K-E-T-T-S Road, Brisbane 4054.

Agent: Right. Will you be working in New Zealand?

Susan: Yes, I have a job at Auckland Hospital.

Agent: Oh, are you a nurse?

Susan: Most people assume that or think I'm a doctor, but actually I'm a chemist.

Agent: Oh, sorry.

Susan: That's OK.

Agent: When will you need the accommodation from?

Susan: Well, I don't start work until the 25th of February, but I'd like to give myself some time to settle in.
A couple of weeks would be nice. Let's say from the 10th of February.

Agent: Our leases start from a Monday and the Monday closest to that is the 8th of February. Would that suit?

Susan: That's fine.

Agent: OK, let's talk about what kind of place you'd like to rent.

Susan: Hmm. I like the outdoors, so my dream would be a house that has its own garden.

Agent: Is there anything else you'd consider an apartment, for example?

Susan: I don't know. They usually don't have an outdoor area.
But I guess as an alternative, if you could find me one with a large balcony, I'd be happy.

Agent: How many rooms do you want?

Susan: Usually one-bedroom places are too small. Two would be ideal.

Agent: Now, what would you like to have in the place when you move in?

Susan: I'm bringing most of what I need with me.
I have beds and sofas and a television, all that sort of stuff, so none of that is necessary.

Agent: It sounds like you want a partially furnished house with a washing machine.

Susan: Actually, I'm bringing that too.
All I really need in the places is fridge.
I don't have one, so we'll definitely need one.

Agent: OK

Susan: Can you find something like that for around $350 a week?

Agent: Well, I'll certainly try.
I'll start looking for places that cost around $300 and see if there's anything suitable.
You definitely won't need to pay more than $400 for something like that.

Susan: Oh, that's good. I couldn't pay more than that.

Agent: Alright, I'll see what I can find.
You're working at the hospital.
Do you want to live somewhere near there?

Susan: Most people think it's strange but I don't like living close to work.
But I'm a mad keen surfer, so it's important for me to be close to the beach.

Agent: OK, do you need to be near public transport?

Susan: No. I usually drive to work because I work a lot of shift work.
So wherever I live we'll need to have parking close to the door, so I won't have to walk far at night.

Agent: Anything else? I've heard that power bills can get quite expensive, especially in the winter.
It'd be great if electricity was part of the rent.

Susan: OK, just one last question for our records. Where did you hear about us? You're...

Section 2
John: Good afternoon listeners. Thanks for tuning in to Four KB.

Jane Lewis is with us from Tourism Queensland to tell us about the annual Queensland festival.

Jane, welcome.

Jane: Morning John. So much is going on for the next couple of weeks in our festival here in the States capital of Brisbane.

The Music 10 opens this week and this will be an event not to be missed.

As the name suggests, the Music Tent is an enormous tent where musical performances and activities will be going on throughout the day for the next two weeks.

Monday is going to be really busy as it's a public holiday and the first day of the event.

It's going to be lots of fun.

But if you're free, it's probably a better option to leave it till Tuesday unless you love crowds.

The following day is when the master classes take place and this requires preregistration so you can't just turn up I'm afraid.

The weekend educational workshops were so popular last year that they have been extended this year.

They now run each afternoon from 1 till 4 o'clock before the evening performances start from 5.

If you're learning to play an instrument, these workshops are great fun, so make sure you get along there.

Tickets for the music tend to events are available from the door or you can purchase them at the ticket office located in the city centre.

For the best deal though, take proof of your home address to any library.

As a local resident, you will be able to purchase discounted tickets.

Apart from music, we'll also be celebrating our local history with a special walking tour around Brisbane City Centre.

Not to be missed on the walk is a tour of Macquarie House, the home of Queensland's first governor.

It has lovely gardens you can walk around or picnic in.

This building has a fascinating history because it was built on the very same spot where the first settlers landed, so it's really worth a visit if you enjoy learning about our local history.

No Australian event is complete without a Barbie and I think the Big BBQ is going to be fantastic.

It's not quite as big as the Millennium year BBQ, but there'll be local and international bands playing on the main stage for the first time this year at no extra cost.

As always, the food will be prepared by top local chefs.

My mouth is watering already.

I really recommend going along to the Railway Museum during the festival because trains are such an important part of Queensland's history.

On loan from Queensland Rail at the moment is our very first steam train.

You won't be able to see it in operation, but you can hop on board and have a meal in the old dining carriage.

There is also a wonderful display of uniforms that have been worn over the last 100 years.

Jane: Another really special opportunity is the return trip on our only remaining steam train, which runs from Ipswich to Toowoomba.

If you purchase a family ticket as well as a trip on the train, you'll receive a free Australian flag each to wave while aboard.

There is a small charge for the Ipswich Museum tour, but I think it's worth it as it makes an educational day out.

The documentary film you can see there is interesting, and it's well worth the $2 entry fee.

On the return train journey, the kids get a lovely activity book designed to teach them about the history of the steam train.

Don't forget to bring your sunscreen and hats, it's going to be hot up there in Toowoomba at this time of year.

And finally, I'm going to tell you about an event called Our Favorite Place.

This is an opportunity for the public to vote for their favorite spot anywhere in the state.

Maybe a park or a restaurant, it's up to you.

You can vote even if you're not living in the area at the moment.

You can vote as often as you like by sending in the voting form or if you prefer, send a text message from any Australian mobile phone number with the name of the location. It's so easy.

Not much time left though, so get those votes in as soon as possible.

The winning location will be announced on the last Saturday of the festival.

Also remember that no age limit applies for this one, so this is a great way to get the whole family involved.

Well, thank you very much for that, Jane. Now we have music...

Section 3
Doctor Chang: Right, Ravi, tell me how the research for your assignment about children's outdoor play is going.

Ravi: Yes, well, I've been reading about why children spend less time playing outside now than 20 or 30 years ago.

Doctor Chang: So is it just because of the amount of online time that children have now, which obviously happens indoors?

Ravi: Well, if that was the case, there'd be a correlation between high Internet use and low levels of outdoor play.
And it's nothing to do with whether there are adequate facilities outside.
Playgrounds, for example, as any open space will do.
There's perhaps no single more important factor than parental worries about the dangers of vehicles on the streets.

Doctor Chang: But it could also be that children today prefer playing indoors to outdoors.

Ravi: Well, a study in Tokyo suggests it's the other way round, but children are spending more time in structured activities and out of school clubs than before.
And this has a knock-on effect on...

Doctor Chang: What's left for outdoor play.

Ravi: Right.

Doctor Chang: Your premise is that outdoor play is good.
What exactly do you want to focus on in your assignment?

Ravi: Well, not so much on things that apply to exercise in general, like children's muscles getting stronger because they run around.
And not on what seems, for instance, self-evident that outdoor play helps children to concentrate on things other than lessons.

Doctor Chang: Sure.

Ravi: I'd like to investigate some of the more unexpected benefits, like the children's digestion.
This is because fresh air tends to stimulate hunger, perhaps leaving to one side the question of whether climbing trees helps educate children about the natural world.

Doctor Chang: No, not really relevant.
What sort of decisions do outdoor games and activities force children to make?

Ravi: Well, for example, how they decide how dangerous something might be, and I'd like to outline the main findings on that.

Doctor Chang: OK. And as you're arguing that there's been a shift in play patterns over the last generation or so, how are you going to substantiate this?

Ravi: Yes, surveys have compared parents recollections of their childhood play 30 years ago with what their children do now.
And the nature of what children do when they are playing outdoors has changed.

Doctor Chang: How exactly?

Ravi: Well, surprisingly, it's not so much how often children play outside or preferences for large or small groups, but the fact that the play sessions don't go on for as long.
And games involving one child running after another who tries to get away.
These are still as popular as ever.
But one thing that is declined is improvised games, and I'd like to examine why this might be.

Doctor Chang: Interesting. And what about safety?

Ravi: Well, from my reading, serious accidents are still rare.
More kids hurt themselves falling out of bed than out of trees.

Ravi: I think the decline of outdoor play is a problem which should worry parents.
I mean, perhaps the children themselves don't miss it.
They may be happy to spend lots of time indoors.
But the links between inactivity and physical problems when they're adults are so well established that I think kids should be encouraged to spend more time outdoors with their brothers and sisters and friends.

Doctor Chang: What about schools?

Ravi: Well, what I think they should do differently regarding outdoor play and it wouldn't actually require a great deal of expenditure, is base their policy on different outcomes, like developing children's confidence.
Not just thinking about exam results, although I don't know how it would go down with the parents.

Doctor Chang: And do children get more contact with nature in rural areas?

Ravi: There's research on this by Smith and Barker.
Intuitively, you'd expect children in rural areas to spend more time out in the open, but in fact they are generally told to keep off agricultural land.
Plus there are difficulties with supervision outside towns and cities.

Doctor Chang: Right, and Smith and Barker's paper was published in...

Ravi: 2001.

Doctor Chang: Not the most up to date, but still valid to use.
But you'll need to stipulate very precisely that their focus was.
If I remember correctly, just on rural areas. So you'd need to consider how far their restricted findings might be applicable to urban areas as well.

Ravi: OK.

Doctor Chang: Right. So now I'd suggest you produce an overview of what you're going to cover.

Section 4
Good afternoon. I'm the Managing director of Molecular Technologies and we are involved in recycling tyres from vehicles such as cars and trucks.

This might not sound new or exciting, but the method we use is quite radical, compared to traditional tyre recycling methods.

We strongly believe that the business of recycling tyres is crucial.

As amazingly, every month in Australia alone the number of old tyres that are discarded exceeds 1.5 million.

And when you look at the figure globally, it is a staggering 1.2 billion each year.

For decades, various recycling methods have been trialled, with varying degrees of success.

In some cases the solution was as bad as the problem.

Incinerating tyres, for example, generates toxic fumes which are harmful to the environment.

Breaking up whole tyres is energy intensive and produces a contaminated product with very little value.

As a result, there was little incentive to get into the business because there was no profit in it.

And yet a tyre is made-up of so many valuable components, and it is for this reason that we started trying out new recycling methods.

In the end, our factory came up with a much improved system for recycling old tyres.

The molecular process is different for a number of reasons.

Firstly, it is a lot cheaper to run because our machines are much more compact in comparison to traditional systems.

his in turn reduces energy consumption.

The wear and tear on the shredding equipment which cuts up the tyres is also reduced, as the tyres fed through them have already been softened.

Costs are reduced by over 30% using our system.

And significantly, our machines can handle a tire of any size, from the smallest bicycle or wheelbarrow right up to the largest earth moving truck.

Most other processes can only handle car tyres.

Our technology has proven to work and we have won many awards including the Australian Museums Eureka Award.

And last year, on a national TV programme we were chosen as the invention of the year.

Winning that certainly opened many doors for us, with interest coming from 27 countries around the world, including the United States and China.

To cope with the demand, we will soon have 10 more factories which will operate 24 hours a day just to stabilise the current stockpile.

We are passionate about taking this process further, and so we have chosen to dedicate 5% of every dollar we make to research.

In this way we can ensure we are always the best in the business.

So. Let's look at the process we use, what we extract from the tyre and each stage of the process and the uses that those materials can be put to.

The first step of the process mechanically extracts the steel wires from the rim of the tire.

This high quality wire can be cut into small pellets suitable for sandblasting shots.

Next, after the tyres have been sliced into a number of segments depending on tyre diameter, they are chemically treated.

This chemical treatment is essential as it removes dirt from the rubber prior to the rest of the process.

The cleaning process also softens the tyres, making them easier to chop up.

In the next stage, the fibre cords contained in the tyre segments are separated from the rubber using rollers.

The fibres, which can include nylon and rayon, can be used as a reinforcement for concrete, or they can be used to form plastic panels.

Then the rubber is cut up into very small pieces known as crumb rubber.

For a tire weighing 10 kilograms, Malecha can recover 7.5 kilograms of crumb rubber that can be used to manufacture a range of rubber products, such as asphalt, used in road making.

It is also used as insulation in buildings or something simple like tiles for the floor.

Alternatively, any or all of this crumb rubber can continue through to the final stage.

This final stage involves a patented Molectra vac machine which uses industrial microwave energy.

This changes the remaining rubber into hydrocarbon, which can be used to make three different products.

We can cheaply produce activated carbon, which is usually quite expensive to make from new materials.

It's used for treating water as well as being an integral part of air filters.

Secondly, as the carbon produced is very pure. In fact it's over 97.4% pure.

We can crush it to form something called carbon black, which is used in the manufacture of batteries and also ink.

Our process is very flexible and we can alter the quantity of each of the three products depending on demand.

Finally, we can even use the hydrocarbon to make oil.